# LanguageModel_Example
Data:
Cardamom, the Queen of all spices, has a history as old as the human race. It is the dried fruit of a herbaceous perennial plant. Warm humid climate, loamy soil rich in organic matter, distributed rainfall and special cultivation and processing methods all combine to make Indian cardamom truly unique in aroma, flavour, size and it has a parrot green colour.
Two types of cardamom are produced in India. The first type is the large one, which has not much significance as it is not traded in the futures market. It is cultivated in North-Eastern area of the country. The second type is produced in the Southern states and these are traded in the futures market. These are mainly cultivated in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. As per the futures market rules, only 7 mm quality was previously traded in exchanges. But later it relaxed its norms, and now 6 mm quality is also traded in the exchanges.
The small variety, known for its exotic quality throughout the world, is now traded in India's commodity futures exchanges. Traditional auction markets also exist for trading in small cardamom in the country. 
Cardamom is an expensive spice, second only to saffron. It is often adulterated and there are many inferior substitutes from cardamom-related plants such as Siam cardamom, Nepal cardamom, winged Java cardamom etc. However, it is only Elettaria cardamom which is the true cardamom. Indian cardamom is known in two main varieties: Malabar cardamom and Mysore cardamom. The Mysore variety contains levels of cineol and limonene and hence is more aromatic.
India was the world's largest producer and exporter of cardamom till the 1980s. By 1990s Guatemala emerged as the leading producer and exporter of cardamom.
The main harvest season of cardamom in India is between August-February, Cardamom reaches yielding stage two years after planting. The primary physical markets of cardamom are Kumily, Vandenmedu, Thekkady, Puliyarmala in Kerala and Bodynaikkannur and Cumbam in Tamil Nadu. Cardamom auctions also take place in Sakalespur and Sirsi in Karnataka.
North India is the main market for cardamom produced in the country. Normally, domestic demand goes up during the major festivals such as Diwali, Dusserah and Id. Colour, size and aroma are the major variables that shape cardamom prices in the Indian market. Cardamom price formation in India is also influenced by the output in Guatemala as that country controls the global markets. 
Kerala is the main producer of cardamom and contributes up to 60% in total production. Karnataka roduces around 25% cardamom of the total production. Ooty is the main producer of cardamom in amil Nadu and contributes around 10-15% of the total production.
Besides India, Guatemala also produces around 2200 ton cardamom. On the other hand, India produces early 1000-1200 ton cardamom per year. Due to low quality of cardamom from Guatemala, it remains ailable at cheaper rates Moreover, cardamom of Indian origin fetches $ 3-4 per kilogram higher rates an the ones from Guatemala.

Source:Aggarwal, V.K., (Eds.). (2015). Devjyoti Bravia. Jalandhar (Punjab, India): JBD Printing Press
